src/projects/hostr.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Hostr'
path: /portfolio/hostr
websiteURL: 'https://learnsometing-private-events.herokuapp.com/'
githubURL: 'https://github.com/learnsometing/rails-private_events'
cardPhoto:
  {
    'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/home.jpg',
    'altText': 'A sign-up button on the home page of the rails private events app.',
  }
cardText: 'A Ruby on Rails event hosting app.'
carouselPhotos:
  [
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/home.jpg',
      'altText': 'A sign-up button on the home page of the rails private events app.',
      'caption': 'Landing Page.',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/sign-up.jpg',
      'altText': 'A form asking the user to enter their name and a button to sign the user up.',
      'caption': 'Sign up page.',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/sign-up-confirmation.jpg',
      'altText': 'A notification telling the user they were signed up as John Doe, and a button for creating events.',
      'caption': 'Sign up confirmation.',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/event-creation.jpg',
      'altText': 'A form for creating an event with location, date, and description fields.',
      'caption': 'Create an event.',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/event-confirmation.jpg',
      'altText': 'A notification of a successfully created event with event itinerary.',
      'caption': 'Successful event creation.',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/send-invitations.jpg',
      'altText': "A form for inviting users to the newly created event. Each user's name is displayed next to a checkbox.",
      'caption': 'Invite some friends!',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/invitations.jpg',
      'altText': "A box displaying the user's invitations, which is currently empty.",
      'caption': 'Check your invitations (no one likes me :( ).',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/previous-events.jpg',
      'altText': 'A page showing all of the previously held events as cards with address and date.',
      'caption': 'Browse all previous events.',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/upcoming-events.jpg',
      'altText': 'A box showing all of the upcoming events, which is empty because there are none.',
      'caption': 'Browse upcoming events.',
    },
  ]
technologies:
  [
    'Bootstrap',
    'CSS',
    'HTML',
    'MVC Architecture',
    'RESTful Services',
    'Ruby',
    'Ruby on Rails',
  ]
date: '2019-06-10'
---

Relational databases provide a means to relate datasets to each other through
foreign key associations. Under the hood, Rails uses the ActiveRecord ORM to
implement database relations through ActiveRecord associations. Hostr is an
eventbrite inspired app that was developed to practice using ActiveRecord
associations. Users can sign up with their name, create events, and invite
other users to their own events. All previous and upcoming events can be browsed
as well.

Commit message:

Adds eslint mdx plugin to project and revises content in each MDX page.

src/projects/hostr.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Hostr'
path: /portfolio/hostr
websiteURL: 'https://learnsometing-private-events.herokuapp.com/'
githubURL: 'https://github.com/learnsometing/rails-private_events'
cardPhoto:
  {
    'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/home.jpg',
    'altText': 'A sign-up button on the home page of the rails private events app.',
  }
cardText: 'A Ruby on Rails event hosting app.'
carouselPhotos:
  [
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/home.jpg',
      'altText': 'A sign-up button on the home page of the rails private events app.',
      'caption': 'Landing page',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/sign-up.jpg',
      'altText': 'A form asking the user to enter their name and a button to sign the user up.',
      'caption': 'Signup page',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/sign-up-confirmation.jpg',
      'altText': 'A notification telling the user they were signed up as John Doe, and a button for creating events.',
      'caption': 'Signup confirmation',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/event-creation.jpg',
      'altText': 'A form for creating an event with location, date, and description fields.',
      'caption': 'Create event page',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/event-confirmation.jpg',
      'altText': 'A notification of a successfully created event with event itinerary.',
      'caption': 'Event creation success',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/send-invitations.jpg',
      'altText': "A form for inviting users to the newly created event. Each user's name is displayed next to a checkbox.",
      'caption': 'Invite some friends',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/invitations.jpg',
      'altText': "A box displaying the user's invitations, which is currently empty.",
      'caption': 'Invitations inbox',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/previous-events.jpg',
      'altText': 'A page showing all of the previously held events as cards with address and date.',
      'caption': 'Browse previous events',
    },
    {
      'src': '../images/work-experience/rails-private-events/upcoming-events.jpg',
      'altText': 'A box showing all of the upcoming events, which is empty because there are none.',
      'caption': 'Browse upcoming events',
    },
  ]
technologies:
  [
    'Bootstrap',
    'CSS',
    'HTML',
    'MVC Architecture',
    'RESTful Services',
    'Ruby',
    'Ruby on Rails',
  ]
date: '2019-06-10'
---

<Grid item>
  <Typography variant={'body1'} gutterBottom>
    <strong>Relational databases</strong> provide a means to relate datasets to each other through
    foreign key associations. Under the hood, <strong>Rails</strong> uses the <strong>ActiveRecord ORM</strong> to
    implement database relations through ActiveRecord associations.
  </Typography>
</Grid>
<Grid item>
  <Typography variant={'body1'} gutterBottom>
    <strong>Hostr</strong> is an <strong>eventbrite</strong> inspired app that was 
    developed to practice using ActiveRecord associations. Users can sign up with 
    their name, create events, and invite other users to their own events. All 
    previous and upcoming events can be browsed as well.
  </Typography>
</Grid>
