src/projects/the-wally-shop-checkout-flow-redesign.mdx, before:

---
title: 'The Wally Shop Checkout Flow Redesign'
path: /portfolio/the-wally-shop-checkout-flow-redesign
websiteUrl: 'https://thewallyshop.co'
cardPhoto:
  {
    src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/card-photo.jpg',
    altText: 'The Wally Shop checkout page after being redesigned.',
  }
cardText: "A UX focused redesign of The Wally Shop's checkout flow."
mobileCarouselPhotos:
  [
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/impulse-products.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page.',
      caption: 'The impulse buys page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/checkout-before.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop Checkout page prior to redesign.',
      caption: 'The checkout page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/cart-review.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page, redesigned to feature cart review.',
      caption: 'The redesigned impulse buys page.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/shipping.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop shipping step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned shipping step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/payment.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop payment step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned payment step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/checkout-after.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop checkout page after being redesigned.',
      caption: 'The checkout page after redesign.',
    },
  ]
tabletCarouselPhotos:
  [
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/impulse-products.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page.',
      caption: 'The impulse buys page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/checkout-before.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop Checkout page prior to redesign.',
      caption: 'The checkout page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/cart-review.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page, redesigned to feature cart review.',
      caption: 'The redesigned impulse buys page.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/shipping.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop shipping step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned shipping step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/payment.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop payment step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned payment step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/checkout-after.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop checkout page after being redesigned.',
      caption: 'The checkout page after redesign.',
    },
  ]
carouselPhotos:
  [
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/impulse-products.jpg',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page.',
      caption: 'The impulse buys page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/checkout-before.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop Checkout page prior to redesign.',
      caption: 'The checkout page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/cart-review.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page, redesigned to feature cart review.',
      caption: 'The redesigned impulse buys page.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/shipping.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop shipping step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned shipping step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/payment.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop payment step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned payment step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/checkout-after.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop checkout page after being redesigned.',
      caption: 'The checkout page after redesign.',
    },
  ]
tags:
  - 'CSS'
  - 'styled-components'
  - 'Express.js'
  - 'React'
  - 'Responsive Design'
  - 'REST APIs'
date: '2020-12-17'
---

<Grid item>
  <Typography className="description fade-in" gutterBottom>
    While preparing to secure more orders on a monthly basis, the store's
    checkout flow was identified as a barrier to conversion and order
    processing. The first page in the process was solely dedicated to selling
    the customers additional products but in a pushy and overwhelming way. The
    checkout page lacked useful error handling, so our customers weren't being
    given any reasons why their orders wouldn't go through. Lastly, our team
    felt that condensing all of the checkout steps on one page was overwhelming
    to our customers. It was also unsightly, due to layout shift caused by
    interacting with features on the page.
  </Typography>
  <Typography className="description fade-in" gutterBottom>
    To remedy the issue on the first step of the checkout flow, I decided to
    change the tone of the page from pushy to helpful. I still wanted the page
    to sell additional products, but I also wanted to allow our customers to use
    this page to review their cart one last time. In order to accomplish this,
    the number of additional products shown to the user was reduced by 50% to
    avoid displaying an overwhelming amount of options. The 'impulse buys' the
    section was reorganized into a carousel to allow the customer's cart to be
    shown below and a call to action was added above it to act as a reminder to
    check for any potentially forgotten items. Google Analytics event tracking
    was also added to each product in the carousel to measure conversion when
    added to the cart.
  </Typography>
  <Typography className="description fade-in" gutterBottom>
    To reduce the complexity and the layout shift on the checkout page, it was
    split into three separate pages. The first two pages were dedicated to
    shipping and payment, and the last page was dedicated to reviewing. A single
    column on each page allowed collapsible elements to continue to be used
    while reducing the awkwardness of the resulting layout shift. To further
    reduce layout shift and bundle size, shipping and payment forms were made
    into pop-ups that could be lazy-loaded with React's Suspense package.
    Cookies were also leveraged to save customer-selected preferences to prevent
    completed parts of the checkout process from being reset.
  </Typography>
  <Typography className="description fade-in" gutterBottom>
    Error handling was improved throughout the process by enforcing form-level
    data validation and API level data validation and sanitization on address,
    payment, and order submission forms. This change prevented erroneous data
    from ever reaching our database and also allowed us to display helpful
    messages to guide the customer through error resolution.
  </Typography>
</Grid>

Commit message:

Extends carousel to allow mobile and tablet sized photos to be shown and finalizes project copy.

src/projects/the-wally-shop-checkout-flow-redesign.mdx, after:

---
title: 'The Wally Shop Checkout Flow Redesigned'
path: /portfolio/the-wally-shop-checkout-flow-redesign
websiteUrl: 'https://thewallyshop.co'
cardPhoto:
  {
    src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/card-photo.jpg',
    altText: 'The Wally Shop checkout page after being redesigned.',
  }
cardText: "A UX focused redesign of The Wally Shop's checkout flow."
mobileCarouselPhotos:
  [
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/impulse-products.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page.',
      caption: 'The impulse buys page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/checkout-before.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop Checkout page prior to redesign.',
      caption: 'The checkout page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/cart-review.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page, redesigned to feature cart review.',
      caption: 'The redesigned impulse buys page.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/shipping.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop shipping step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned shipping step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/payment.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop payment step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned payment step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/mobile/checkout-after.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop checkout page after being redesigned.',
      caption: 'The checkout page after redesign.',
    },
  ]
tabletCarouselPhotos:
  [
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/impulse-products.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page.',
      caption: 'The impulse buys page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/checkout-before.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop Checkout page prior to redesign.',
      caption: 'The checkout page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/cart-review.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page, redesigned to feature cart review.',
      caption: 'The redesigned impulse buys page.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/shipping.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop shipping step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned shipping step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/payment.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop payment step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned payment step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/tablet/checkout-after.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop checkout page after being redesigned.',
      caption: 'The checkout page after redesign.',
    },
  ]
carouselPhotos:
  [
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/impulse-products.jpg',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page.',
      caption: 'The impulse buys page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/checkout-before.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop Checkout page prior to redesign.',
      caption: 'The checkout page prior to redesign.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/cart-review.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop impulse buys page, redesigned to feature cart review.',
      caption: 'The redesigned impulse buys page.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/shipping.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop shipping step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned shipping step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/payment.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop payment step of the checkout flow.',
      caption: 'The redesigned payment step of the checkout flow.',
    },
    {
      src: '../images/tws-checkout-flow-overhaul/desktop/checkout-after.png',
      altText: 'The Wally Shop checkout page after being redesigned.',
      caption: 'The checkout page after redesign.',
    },
  ]
tags:
  - 'CSS'
  - 'styled-components'
  - 'Express.js'
  - 'React'
  - 'Responsive Design'
  - 'REST APIs'
date: '2020-12-17'
---

<Grid item>
  <Typography className="description fade-in" gutterBottom>
    While preparing to secure more orders on a monthly basis, the store's
    checkout flow was identified as a barrier to conversion and order
    processing. The first page in the process was dedicated to selling
    additional products, but was overwhelming to use. The checkout page lacked
    useful error handling, so our customers weren't being given any reasons why
    their orders wouldn't go through. Lastly, our team felt that condensing all
    of the checkout steps on one page was overwhelming to our customers. It was
    also unsightly, due to layout shift caused by interacting with features on
    the page.
  </Typography>
  <Typography className="description fade-in" gutterBottom>
    To make the first page of the checkout flow less overwhelming, the number of
    additional products shown to the user was limited to a maximum of twelve.
    The products were also reorganized into a carousel to make room to show the
    customer's cart below. A call to action with a helpful tone was used to
    remind the customer to check for any forgotten or previously unviewed items.
    Lastly, Google Analytics event tracking was added to each product in the
    carousel to measure conversion when added to the cart. These changes reduced
    the likelihood of overwhelming our customers when they decide to add
    additional items to their cart and gave them another opportunity to review
    their cart before checking out.
  </Typography>
  <Typography className="description fade-in" gutterBottom>
    To reduce the complexity and the layout shift on the checkout page, it was
    split into three separate pages. The first two pages were dedicated to
    shipping and payment, and the last page was dedicated to order review. A
    single column on each page allowed collapsible elements to continue to be
    used while reducing the awkwardness of the resulting layout shift. To
    further reduce layout shift and bundle size, shipping and payment forms were
    made into modals that could be lazy-loaded with React's Suspense package.
    Cookies were also leveraged to save customer-selected preferences to prevent
    completed parts of the checkout process from being reset.
  </Typography>
  <Typography className="description fade-in" gutterBottom>
    Error handling was improved throughout the process by enforcing form-level
    and API-level data validation and sanitization on address, payment, and
    order submission forms. This change prevented erroneous data from ever
    reaching our database and also allowed us to display helpful messages to
    guide the customer through error resolution.
  </Typography>
</Grid>
